---
layout: post
title:      "2020 Vision"
date:       2020-08-03 13:33:17 +0000
permalink:  2020_vision
---


This weekend, I started the self-paced Software Engineering bootcamp program through the Flatiron School. I want to say that the path that led me here is unique, but a lot of the people who enroll in bootcamps have a myriad of reasons, backgrounds, and motivations. What we have in common is that we're hoping that, through learning to skillfully code, we can change things (our lives, others' lives, industries, etc) for the better. 
I started my working life as a social worker. I was a Therapeutic Support Staff for about 6 months after college. I worked with kids one-on-one on behavioral and emotional issues. Then I moved on to do a year with my county's Children & Youth Services department. Lets just say one year in that world was enough. My husband and I were married in September of 2008, and I moved to Philly to live with him. While we lived there, I worked for Early Intervention, where I coordinated services for children with developmental delays. When our first child was born in 2011, we moved to Lancaster county to be closer to family. I had a rough pregnancy and delivery, and had decided to stay home with my daughter. My son joined the family in 2014, after another rough pregnancy. I had pre-ecclampsia both times, followed by emergency c-section deliveries and lengthy NICU stays. My daughter was born later and had a 15 day NICU stint. My son was born 2 months early and spent his first month in the NICU. Thankfully, the only lasting sign of his rough start is a mild case of asthma. 
When my son turned 2, I realized that I would shortly have two kids in school, and we had no plans for more additions to the family. So I began looking for ways to re-enter the workforce. A life filled with housework is not what I was raised for.
My husband, who is a back-end software engineer, suggested that I build off of some HTML knowledge I had from high school and look into learning how to code. After a lot of research into the world of coding, and running down other possible career paths, I decided front-end web development was the place for me. I enjoy making things that other people can use. I like the satisfaction of writing some lines of code and then having the browser update to see their behavior. I used online resources like Codecademy and freeCodeCamp to pick up HTML and CSS. During a module on Accessibility in design, I read up on what its like for a person with disabilities to use the web, and how many, many web pages are not built with the disabled community in mind. 
When I moved on to JavaScript, I hit a wall. I had trouble making the basic concepts stick in my head. That, paired with what felt like weird syntax, had me pretty frustrated. At that point, I realized I would need more support. So I started researching bootcamps. Particularly ones with flexible online options. With the pandemic showing no sign of slowing down, and the kids' school situation up in the air, I needed a self-paced program with plenty of time to complete the requirements. I signed up for Career Karma and did their #21DayCKChallenge, where I explored multiple bootcamp options and settled on Flatiron as my primary choice. I applied, started the prep course, and was accepted. 
My goal is to finish the program in less than a year, even with my kids also learning at home this fall and the unpredictability of the world with the Covid-19 pandemic still going. To land a job creating and maintaining web sites/apps, and work on learning more about accessibility on the web. I'm hoping that's something I can specialize in -- making the web a better place for anyone who wants to use it. 

Wish me luck!
